in this tutorial
playing the
so needle analysis feature of jet tech
pro
press the button to select the feature
and the needle analysis screen will open
you could of course right click your
mouse to navigate from the opening
screen to the de la Sol needle analysis
screen or indeed anywhere within jet
tech Pro to use the needle and last
screen you simply first answer your
carburetors configuration and let's
assume in this case we are using the
vortex rock
so having entered your carburetor setup
details you then select the needle and
in the main jet equivalent table you
will see from zero throttle opening to
full throttle opening the equivalent
main jet is displayed in the table
opposite the selected reference needle
in this case the K 28 now the equivalent
jet feature simply displays the whole
fuel flow for the particular carburetor
setting and is an indicator of the
current state of fuel flow through the
carburetor now the reference needle in
this case the K 28 can be compared with
three other needle profiles in order to
determine the optimum needle selection
should you require a change from say the
K 28 in this case so by selecting in the
first drop-down list the K 29 the graph
will display a comparison with the
reference needle in this case the K 28
the K 28 is represented in the graph by
the zero line and the K 29 by the red
bars displayed on the graph so the
graphical representation tells us that
at zero throttle opening the K 29 is
richer than the K 28 and as the throttle
is progressively opened in comparison
with the K 28 it becomes weaker
however at full throttle
it is still richer than the K 28 now if
you select a further needs a needle
profile and let's say in this case the K
you will see that the K 98 is weaker
across the entire range certainly up to
3/4 throttle and then possibly equal to
the K 28 profile at full throttle so by
using this comparison feature you can
quickly select a needle profile suitable
for your particular carburetor and the
engine combination as you can see the K
48 is weaker than the K 28 as idle but
at around a quarter throttle opening it
becomes richer and progressively so all
the way to full throttle the dell'Orto
needle analysis feature enables you
therefore to compare in detail the
profiles of individual needles available
from Dell also the software contains the
full range of needles that are produced
by Dell also over 500 needle profiles
are programmed into the software and can
be selected for comparison very quickly
I think you'll find this feature useful
when optimizing needle selection for the
all-important mid-range performance of
your engine and carburetor combination